After a protracted trial that lasted almost 13 years, a special court has delivered its verdict, holding 49 accused guilty in the 2008 serial blasts case in which Ahmedabad was rocked by a series of bomb blasts that left 56 dead and leaving 200 injured.

The court acquitted 28 accused in the case. As many as 77 accused are facing trial in the case.

The special court to hear quantum of punishment on Wednesday.

In the verdict, the Court held guilty included Safdar Nagori, Javed Ahmed and Atikur Rehman. Among those acquitted were Mohammad Irfan, Nasir Ahmad and Shakeel Ahmed.

The 49 accused were convicted under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), Explosive Substances Act and the Damage to Public Property Act.

One accused was also convicted under the Arms Act. The accused were convicted under IPC sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 121 (a) (conspiracy to wage war or attempt to wage war against the nation) and 124 (a) (sedition), and section 16(1)(a)(b) of the UAPA, which concerns terrorist acts.

According to the Special Public Prosecutor Amit Patel, the convicts can attract a maximum punishment of death or imprisonment for life, and the prosecution will seek capital punishment for some of them.

The trial in the case ended in September last year. The special judge A.R. Patel has delivered the verdict in the most high-profile serial blasts case in Gujarat.

Earlier, the case was notified several times for pronouncement of judgment, but was adjourned.

In 2008, after the serial blasts, the Gujarat Police busted a nationwide network of radical elements from a minority community, who where involved in carrying out serial blasts in the city.

Accordingly, the police had claimed people associated with banned terror outfit Indian Mujahideen (IM), a faction of radicals of the outlawed Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI), were allegedly involved in carrying out the serial blasts in which 56 innocent people were killed and over 200 had sustained serious injuries.

The police had also alleged that the terrorists associated with IM had planned and executed the blasts as a revenge for the 2002 post-Godhra riots in Gujarat.

During the lengthy trial that had begun in 2009, a year after the blasts, the prosecution examined over 1,100 witnesses.

The trial in this sensitive case initially took place inside the Sabarmati central jail for security reasons and the proceedings were later conducted mostly through video-conferencing.