The Alternative Dispute Resolution Centre (ADR) set up by the Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) at its office here so far has facilitated a settlement of disputes between various litigating parties worth Rs. 4.62 crore.

Supreme Court judge S. Abdul Nazeer inaugurated the centre in March 2020. The pandemic affected the smooth functioning of the system.

However, once the pandemic was brought under control, it started full-scale operation in 2021. In less than a year of functioning, it has handled several cases primarily on business and commerce matters, president of KCCI Shashidhar Pai Maroor said in a release on Tuesday.

The centre is designed to settle disputes outside of the courtroom with the help of an impartial third party. The Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996, which governs the settlement of disputes outside court, has been made relevant and current with a plethora of amendments.

The amendments have facilitated the improvement of institutional arbitration by establishing an independent body to lay down standards, making the arbitration process more flexible and cost-effective and ensuring the timely disposal of cases.

“We have made a conscious effort to ensure that arbitration proceedings do not mimic court proceedings and disputes are settled after giving enough chances to both parties to narrate their side of the story,” Mr. Maroor said.

All the cases settled by the centre have been achieved within 90 days of admission, which is by far a record considering the long years one has to suffer in a court of law, the KCCI said.

As head of the ADR focus area of KCCI, Lionel Aranha said: “Alternative dispute resolution is here to stay. The centre has attracted cases from the industry and has ensured that resolutions are found quickly and efficiently.”

The centre was the brainchild of the fromer president of KCCI, Isaac Vas, who said: “We invite litigating parties to avail of the services of the centre to bring a lasting settlement to their long-pending disputes.”

According to the National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG), 4.11 crore cases are pending in all courts across India, of which 1.08 crore are civil cases.

Therefore, the country needs an estimated 50,000 more judges to dispose them of in time which has become challenging to all incumbent governments. Considering this, in many cases, courts themselves encourage arbitration and reconciliation to provide justice to citizens.