His political detractors have dubbed him Goa’s ‘accidental Chief Minister’, a ‘puppet’ of the BJP central leadership and ‘property Sawant’. He has faced opposition within his own party while political commentators have found him insipid.

For all the harsh epithets hurled at him, Goa’s Chief Minister has remained unfazed as the party goes to the polls on February 14 for the first time without Manohar Parrikar. Seeking re-election from Sanquelim for a third time, he has chosen to exhibit his government’s efforts at building the State’s infrastructure, be it the bridge under construction on the Zuari river, the bypass at Canacona or the greenfield airport at Mopa.

While his electoral career began with a crash after he lost a 2008 bypoll from Pale, Mr. Sawant nonetheless rallied to win the 2012 election with a comfortable margin of nearly 7,000 votes from Sanquelim.

In 2017, he won a stiff contest with the Congress’s Dharmesh Saglani. His victory margin was much less than in 2012 – a little over 2,000 votes, with his vote share plummeting by nearly 23%. Mr. Sawant again faces off with Mr. Saglani as well as potential vote-cutters from the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and the Revolutionary Goans (RG) in the rural parts of Sanquelim, which constitutes Mr. Sawant’s primary base.

Mr. Sawant took over in March 2019 following Mr. Parrikar’s untimely demise. The contrast between both could not have been starker: Though both are from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh cadre, Mr. Sawant, an ayurvedic practitioner, is viewed as a docile ‘yes-man’ of the BJP top brass in Delhi.

While Parrikar commanded respect from opponents and his own partymen as well as from all social sections of society as a leader capable of acting independently.

Others see Mr. Sawant as a ‘grey eminence’, crediting him for engineering the defection of Congress and MGP legislators.

Through it all, Mr. Sawant has maintained that his government’s development works over a decade in power will see the BJP through and win absolute majority in this election.

Strong challenger

In his own constituency, Mr. Saglani has emerged as a strong challenger after dealing a jolt to the Chief Minister when the former managed to win the Sankhali Municipal Council.

But for Mr. Sawant, the most serious challenge is from within the BJP ranks in the form of his Cabinet colleague Vishwajit Rane — veteran Congressman Pratapsingh Rane’s son and Health Minister — who switched over from the Congress.

Mr. Rane’s chief ministerial ambitions are no secret. The two leaders have frequently clashed over a number of issues at Cabinet meetings — a clash threatened to split the party on the government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic.