A problem of plenty. It is one of the grand old cliches that sport outfits have thrown around for years. In a pandemic-struck world, with the squad size much larger than usual, this has turned into reality.

When India takes on the West Indies at the Narendra Modi Stadium on Wednesday in the second ODI in an attempt to seal the three-match series, Rohit Sharma and Co. will certainly have that problem when finalising its combination.

K.L. Rahul (personal reasons), Shreyas Iyer, Shikhar Dhawan and Ruturaj Gaikwad (COVID-19 affected) were unavailable for Sunday’s series opener. Since then, Rahul has had two hits in the nets, including Tuesday evening’s training, while Shreyas and Dhawan were out of isolation and had a light workout with the squad.

Dhawan and Shreyas though are highly unlikely to be considered for selection on Wednesday. Still, Rahul’s availability means India has plenty to ponder before the toss. At the time being named in the squad, Rahul was expected to bat in the middle order, as he has done frequently in the last two years in ODIs.

Kishan or Hooda?

With Dhawan’s unavailability, the team management will have to decide whether to use Rahul at the top along with Rohit or continue to let him play the finisher’s role. Depending on Rahul’s batting position it will be decided whether Ishan Kishan, who opened on Sunday, or Deepak Hooda, who batted sensibly on his ODI debut, will make way for the vice-captain.

Despite being drafted in as a possible batting all-rounder, Hooda was not required to bowl on Sunday. With the team struggling to find a reliable bowling option among the top six batters, it will be interesting to see if Hooda is persisted with at the cost of Kishan.

In the bowling department, with all five bowlers, especially the spin duo of Yuzvendra Chahal and Washington Sundar, putting up an impressive show, it’s unlikely that there will be a change in the line-up. Unless, of course, the management feels the need to rotate the pacers.

While India will be gunning to spin its web around the Windies, Kieron Pollard and Co. will be hoping to raise the bar and stretch India after a lacklustre opener. Pollard will hope the West Indies batters withstand the constant pressure applied by India’s bowlers so that he and Jason Holder can accelerate in the latter half.

Besides, the youngsters in the squad will obviously be looking to make a case for themselves ahead of the Indian Premier League auction set for the weekend. But if the conditions at the Motera continue to be as spin-friendly as they were on Sunday, the writing will in all likelihood be on the wall for the visiting outfit.

The teams (from): India: Rohit Sharma (Capt.), K.L. Rahul (Vice-capt.), Ishan Kishan, Mayank Agarwal, Virat Kohli, Suryakumar Yadav, Deepak Hooda, Rishabh Pant, Deepak Chahar, Shardul Thakur, Yuzvendra Chahal, Kuldeep Yadav, Washington Sundar, Shikhar Dhawan, Shreyas Iyer, Ravi Bishnoi, Mohammed Siraj, Prasidh Krishna, and Avesh Khan.

West Indies: Kieron Pollard (Capt.), Nicholas Pooran (Vice-capt.), Fabian Allen, Darren Bravo, Roston Chase, Sheldon Cottrell, Dominic Drakes, Jason Holder, Shai Hope, Akeal Hosein, Brandon King, Kyle Mayers, Rovman Powell, Romario Shepherd, Odean Smith, and Hayden Walsh Jr.

Match starts at 1.30 p.m .