The Karnataka High Court commenced hearing a batch of petitions, filed by Muslim girls studying in Government Pre-university colleges in Udupi district, questioning the ban on wearing hijab (headscarf) in colleges.

Justice Krishna S. Dixit, before whom the petitions came up for hearing, at the outset requested the advocates, “Let us keep aside passions and emotions, and go by the laws, the reasons, and the Constitution.”

Advocate Mohammed Tahir requested that four petitioner students of Government PU College for Girls, Udupi, be temporarily allowed to attend classes by wearing the dupatta, which is a part of the uniform prescribed by the college, in the form of a headscarf for now, as only two months are left for the end of the academic year, during the pendency of the petitions.

Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi said the issue is now not confined to only four students, but a general question of law has arisen on the right to wear hijab in educational institutions.

Justice Dixit said if no via media can be worked out, the court will have to decide the issue early as it is not a happy scene to see students marching on the roads every day. Pointing to how the issue is being widely circulating on media platforms, the judge said he found hundreds of messages from unknown numbers on his WhatsApp on ruling by various courts.

The court agreed to first hear a petition, filed by Aishat Shifa and Thairin Begum of Government PU College, Kundapur, as it has questioned the legality of the latest Government Order, issued on February 5, 2022, prescribing guidelines for a dress code for both government and private schools, and PU colleges in Karnataka in the light of the hijab controversy.

Senior Advocate Devadatta Kamat, appearing for the petitioners, argued that the petitioners are not talking about wearing burqa or veil, but only a headscarf while contending that wearing of hijab is an ‘essential religious practice’ prescribed in the Holy Quran. Hence, the State Government has no regulatory power as wearing of hijab is protected under the right to freedom of religion in Article 25 of the Constitution.

Mr. Kamat contended that the right to wear a dress is a facet of the fundamental right to speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a), and threshold of ‘public order’ should be extremely high to impose any restriction under Article 19(2). If wearing of hijab is a ‘public order issue’, how is that Muslim girls wearing hijab outside is not a ‘public order issue’ but it becomes one when they enter college, Mr. Kamat contended. It was contended that the GO violates the right to privacy guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution.

Mr. Kamat said Sections 7 and 113 of the Karnataka Education Act, 1983, under which the GO was issued, have no reference to a dress code, and hence the Government had no competence to interfere to lay down policy. He contended that the judgments of Kerala and Madras High Courts, cited in the GO, are not applicable in this case as facts in the judgments are different.