Vivek Bansal , the Congress candidate from the Koil seat of Aligarh, in many ways, is an example of what is wrong with the party in Uttar Pradesh and tells us a thing or two about electoral politics. Immensely popular, the All Indian Congress Committee in charge of Haryana won the Aligarh seat in 2002 but since then he has been losing at the hustings from Koil. The war horse is at it again, appealing to people to rise above polarisation in one of the most educated constituencies that will go to the polls on February 10. Edited excerpts:

Why have you not been able to sail through despite popularity across party lines?

The city gets polarised before the voting. It’s unfortunate that education doesn’t broaden the horizon. Muslims are in substantive numbers on this seat. As they constitute 1,23,000 people in a constituency of around four lakh votes, here, the minority is always under an impression that it can make an MLA on its own and flock together.

What do you tell them?

A section of Muslims believes they can get anything done by claiming persecution. This feeling of persecution has to go. The BJP cashes on it. I keep on telling them why do you keep blaming the government for issues related to faith. Sikhs were displaced but they came up very fast.

What is the role of the Congress party’s eroding base in it?

The party is definitely weak in Uttar Pradesh. Priyanka ji is working hard. There are times when things don’t click for a party but I think it will change very fast and we will be able to catch the imagination of the people. In 2012, I lost by 500 votes. You can call it a quirk of fate or maybe overconfidence on my part.

Is the idea of giving 40% tickets to female candidates working ?

On the face of it, it was a very revolutionary step but the groundwork for it should have been done earlier. My understanding is at some places a candidate has been put up just because she belongs to a particular gender. It could not catch the imagination of the public.

Do you think an alliance would have been a better bet?

No, the party is looking at a long-term perspective. It could further erode the base.